when players are striking out often
there are three things to address
mechanics timing and vision the two
mechanics drills I use are best done on
a batting teeth or with straight on flip
balls before trying them with regular
batting practice usually players with
pretty good swings this under the
baseball so the bat path must be
addressed to avoid a dip in the bat
barrel or a drop of the hands this two
ball journal when players try to miss
the rear ball is a good way to eliminate
those hitting problems light drives are
the goal with this drill however even if
ground balls result with this drill it
is better than no contact of course
doing it on a tee is one thing but
things often change for batters with the
pitched ball so coaches should then try
something similar with flip balls or
batting practice by setting the batting
tee at hip high and underneath the
players hands players should miss the
tee on their approach to the ball once
again ground balls may result with this
drill but muscle memory change requires
opposite actions until contact arrives
with the eventual goal of meeting in the
middle with the correct swing once
players avoid hitting the batting tee
and make contact they can then begin
practicing hitting the inside of the
ball to turn contact into consistent
line drives the second mechanics drill
keeps the batter's front shoulder on the
ball with a complete weight transfer by
picking their rear knee up as they swing
this action keeps the front shoulder
going to the heart sympathetic do it
again let my side out early this hitting
Joe levels at the hips avoiding a
collapsing back side as with the
previous drills even though these drills
may may not be the exact way to swing a
bat correctly they serve to change
muscle memory and bring the contact that
was absent other drills that keep the
front shoulder from flying open
as seen here can work to bring on the
necessary contact for the few players
who strike out by continually swinging
over balls as when facing slow pitching
or breaking balls practicing hitting the
inside part of the ball in low pitches
solves that fixing hitters timing by
finding out what speed pitches players
are missing is also necessary
alternating kick speeds in batting
practice with a smooth three speed
approach a slow speed followed by a
medium speed and then a fast speed works
to figure that out
coaches should then challenge hitters by
throwing more speeds of the players
weaknesses family batters may not be
seeing balls very well or they may be
thinking of their mechanics more than
watching the ball so having players
perform some vision drills always serves
as a good reminder having players yell
out as soon as the ball leaves the
pitchers hand helps get their eyes and
concentration where it needs to be also
having players keep their eyes on the
ball all the way to contact and even
after swinging is good as well as
watching done swing balls all the way to
the catcher's glove setting an object
down are flashing some numbers in the
contact area during batting practice
helps players recognize the importance
of watching balls to contact hopefully
players will begin to make good contact
with less strikeouts with these drills
hope to see you over at my baseball
coaching site at
www.coachingbadminton.com